= asset_library

Bundles your JavaScript and CSS, so your development environment is simple to
code and your production environment is as fast as possible.

== Installation

First, install the gem:

  sudo gem install alegscogs-asset_library --source http://gems.github.com

Next, add the gem into your Rails project's config/environment.rb:

  config.gem 'alegscogs-asset_library', :lib => 'asset_library', :source => 'http://gems.github.com'

Finally, include the Rake tasks in your project:

  echo "begin; require 'asset_library/rake_tasks'; rescue LoadError; end" > lib/tasks/asset_library.rake

== Usage

In your Rails project, edit <tt>config/asset_library.yml</tt> as described
in the following section.

Once configured, asset_library provides two helper methods for your views:

  <%# outputs library.js (production) or its files (development) %>
  <%= asset_library_javascript_tags(:javascripts) %>

  <%# outputs library.css (production) or its files (development) %>
  <%= asset_library_stylesheet_tags(:stylesheets) %>

  <%# outputs library.ie6.css (production) or its files (development) %>
  <!--[if lte IE 6]>
    <%= asset_library_stylesheet_tags(:stylesheets, :ie6) %>
  <![endif]-->

Both helpers behave differently depending on whether
<tt>ActionController::Base.perform_caching</tt> is true (that is, whether you
are in <tt>development</tt> environment or not). When caching is disabled, each
file in the module will be included. (Internet Explorer only allows 30
<tt>style</tt> and <tt>link</tt> stylesheet tags; in development mode,
<tt>import</tt> rules are used to work around the bug.) When caching is
enabled, a single tag is output.

When caching is enabled, the modules to include must be generated using:

  rake asset_library:write

These moduels can be removed using:

  rake asset_library:clean

A cached module is simply the concatenation of its constituent files.

== Configuration

A typical configuration (Yaml) file might look like this. In Rails, this
should be in <tt>config/asset_library.yml</tt>.

  modules:
    javascripts:
      cache: library
      optional_suffix: compressed
      base: javascripts
      suffix: js
      files:
        - vendor/jquery

        # jQuery UI parts we need
        - vendor/jquery-ui/ui.core
        - vendor/jquery-ui/ui.draggable
        - vendor/jquery-ui/ui.droppable
        - vendor/jquery-ui/ui.sortable
        - vendor/jquery-ui/effects.core

        - lib
        - plugins/*
        - application
        - initializers/*

    tiny_mce_javascripts:
      # TinyMCE doesn't give us a choice on cache name
      cache: vendor/tiny_mce/tiny_mce_gzip
      optional_suffix: compressed
      base: javascripts
      suffix: js
      files:
        - vendor/tiny_mce/tiny_mce
        # ... it's possible to bundle all of TinyMCE together with a bit of magic

    stylesheets:
      cache: library
      base: stylesheets
      suffix: css
      formats:
        - ie6: [null, ie8, ie7, ie6]
        - ie7: [null, ie8, ie7]
        - ie8: [null, ie8]
      files:
        - reset
        - application
        - layout
        - views/**/*

  # in general...
  # modules:
  #   module_name:
  #     cache: cache_file
  #     base: base_path_of_assets_in_web_root
  #     suffix: suffix ("css" or "js")
  #     formats:
  #       format1: ["extra_suffix_1", "extra_suffix_2"]
  #       format2: [null, "extra_suffix3"]
  #     optional_suffix: optional_suffix
  #     files:
  #       - file1_relative_to_base
  #       - file2_relative_to_base
  #       - ...
  #   ...

Here are what the various configuration elements mean:

<tt>module_name</tt> is the name of the module. It is passed as the first
parameter to <tt>asset_library_javascript_tags</tt> or
<tt>asset_library_stylesheet_tags</tt>.

<tt>cache</tt> is a filename, without suffix, relative to <tt>base</tt>, where
the module will be bundled when caching is enabled. (Ensure that <tt>files</tt>
does not include <tt>cache_file</tt>, even with globbing.)

<tt>base</tt> is the base path of the assets in URLs. For instance, in Rails,
where stylesheets are usually served under <tt>/stylesheets</tt>, <tt>base</tt>
should be <tt>stylesheets</tt>.

<tt>suffix</tt> is either "js" or "css", depending on whether you are including
JavaScript or CSS files.

<tt>formats</tt> allows construction of parallel modules. By default, for a
module named <tt>styles</tt> will use <tt>*.css</tt> (where <tt>*</tt> is
specified by the <tt>files</tt> option) to generate <tt>styles.css</tt>; but
filenames of the format <tt>*.suffix.css</tt> will be ignored in that search.
If a <tt>format</tt> called <tt>format1</tt> is specified as
<tt>[suffix1, suffix2]</tt>, then <tt>*.suffix1.css</tt> and
<tt>*.suffix2.css</tt> will be included, but not <tt>*.css</tt>. (To specify
<tt>*.css</tt>, put <tt>null</tt> in the format list.)

<tt>optional_suffix</tt> will cause asset_library to check for the existence of
files with <tt>optional_suffix</tt> suffixes, falling back to files without
<tt>optional_suffix</tt> if necessary. For instance, if you run all your
JavaScript files through
{YUI Compressor}[http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/compressor/] and output the
compressed version of <tt>file1.js</tt> as <tt>file1.compressed.js</tt>, then
set <tt>optional_suffix</tt> to <tt>compressed</tt>. In your development
environment, where <tt>compressed</tt> javascripts are missing,
<tt>file1.js</tt> will be included and you can debug your JavaScript. In your
production environment, create the <tt>compressed</tt> JavaScripts in the same
directory, and they will be included instead, for optimal download speed.

<tt>files</tt> is a list of files, relative to <tt>base</tt>. File globbing is
allowed; <tt>**</tt> expands to "any nesting of directories". Files which do
not exist will be excluded; globbing will include/exclude files with
<tt>formats</tt> as appropriate; and files without <tt>optional_suffix</tt>
will not be output alongside files with the same name endowed with the suffix.

== Compilers

If you would like asset library to do more than just concatenate the
files to produce your modules, then you need to specify a compiler.
Asset Library currently ships with support for one compiler: Closure
Compiler, and has an extendable framework to add more.

To specify that a module is to be compiled with the Closure Compiler,
use the compiler key for that module:

    modules:
      javascripts:
        cache: library
        compiler: closure
        base: javascripts
        suffix: js
        files:
          - javascripts/**/*

You also need to configure the compiler by using a
<tt>closure_compiler</tt> key:

    closure_compiler:
      path: /path/to/closure.jar
      flags: --warning_level QUIET

The full list of Closure Compiler settings are:

<tt>path</tt>: The path to the Closure Compiler jar.  This has no
default, and must be given.

<tt>flags</tt>: Flags to pass to Closure Compiler.  Default: no flags.

<tt>java</tt>: The java command to use.  This will be searched for in
the <tt>PATH</tt> unless it is an absolute filename.  Default:
<tt>java</tt>.

<tt>java_flags</tt>: Flags to pass to the java interpreter.  Default:
no flags.

<tt>compilations</tt>: Specifies which modules to compile together,
and any extra flags needed for compiling these modules.  In the
simpler case, the value is an array of string specifying groups of
modules.  For example:

    closure_compiler:
      compilations:
        - one two
        - three

This means modules <tt>one</tt> and <tt>two</tt> will be compiled
together, then module three on its own, then any other modules
declared which are to be processed by Closure Compiler are created one
at a time.

If you need to use different flags for each compilation, you may
specify a hash for a compilation, for example:

    closure_compiler:
      compilations:
        - modules: one two
          flags: --compilation_level ADVANCED_OPTIMIZATIONS
        - three

Finally, to specify dependencies between modules, add a dependencies
key to the required modules:

    modules
      global:
        cache: library
        compiler: closure
        base: javascripts
        suffix: js
        files:
          - javascripts/global/**/*

      admin:
        cache: library
        compiler: closure
        dependencies: global
        base: javascripts
        suffix: js
        files:
          - javascripts/admin/**/*

For truly optimal results, compile all files that can exist on a page
together, with <tt>ADVANCED_OPTIMIZATIONS</tt> enabled.  This allows
the compiler to trim off unused code, and compress all the toplevel
symbols.  With judicious use of the <tt>compilations</tt> option, you
can control precisely how your javascripts are compiled.

== Copyright

I believe in software freedom, not any abomination thereof. This project is
released under the Public Domain, meaning I relinquish my copyright (to any
extend the law allows) and grant you all rights to use, modify, sell, or
otherwise take advantage of my software.

However, I do kindly request that, as a favor, you refrain from using my
software as part of an evil plan involving velociraptors and mind-controlling
robots (even though I would not be legally entitled to sue you for doing so). 
